Real-life examples of conceptual slippage / mutatis mutandis


"Everyone thinks ____. But I think they're wrong!" Without slippage, this is a
contradiction, because "everyone" includes "I". The "I" forces a
retro-slippage of "everyone" to avoid the contradiction.

"Mongolian restaurant"--even though the cuisine is not really from Mongolia.

"I have a car exactly like that one." Not exactly: the license plate is
different, the tires are different, the tiny scratches in the paint are
different, etc.

Lowering standards for arguments and puns.

You don't expect cold winds to blow through the windows on your computer
screen.

You don't expect an ice cream dish called "Death by Chocolate" to be fatal.

You apply experience from people you've known in the past to people you just
met, mutatis mutandis. "She's just like that boy in first grade who said he
stole first base. Don't believe a word she says."

You can apply knowledge from a diagram in a book showing how to replace a
garbage disposer even though there are differences in the sink and the garbage
disposer. You can interpret mere line drawings as representational.

You can tell when people are kidding.

You can reasonably adjust a recipe if you're missing an ingredient.

If some road lines are obviously painted wrong, you disregard them.

When you get into a rental car, you easily adjust to the differences from your
regular car.

Lower courts regularly apply precedents set by higher courts, to very
different cases.

"Mutatis mutandis" and "a fortiori" occur frequently in law, and people agree
on the conclusions.

If you hear a familiar melody played with one wrong note, you still hear it as
the melody (and you can point out the wrong note).

A veterinarian can operate on an animal of a species that the veterinarian has
neither studied not operated on before.

You don't expect real life to match textbook examples.

You can still understand writing with typos and grammatical errors.

You understand that you can "eat like a king" without a crown.

In Italy, "north" often means northwest. Similarly, driving along the 101 in
California, "north" sometimes means west.

You can start your day before the Sun rises.

You know that when a clock stops, time doesn't stop.

It's not hard to understand, even the first time you see one, that one of
those curly-cue light bulbs is a light bulb.

Daylight Savings Time

You can still make good use of an out-of-date road map.

You expect a novel titled "The Never Ending Story" to have an ending.

The first time you encounter a traffic light with red and green lights only
(no yellow), you can deduce that it must be legal to enter the intersection
while the light is red, and that probably there is some time in the cycle when
the light is simultaneously red in both directions.

In English, you can tell when the past tense is used subjunctively. "If you
went to the grocery store, you could buy a sandwich."


