AGENDA 9-Feb-2023

1. Figure out what each edge represents.
2. Identify the basis of thinking that cycles matter.
3. What rules determine placing edges and deciding whether a cycle is good?


WHY ARE CYCLES IN ANALOGIES GOOD?

Because cycles describe attractors in an update process. That's how it worked
in the Hopfield net. But in c&p, we don't have painters altering canvas cells
back and forth. What sort of attractor is there in the dynamics of c&p?

Snippets never change (more than once), but the final canvas changes as
snippets get more and less weight. Is there any attractor for the final
canvas and the weights of the snippets? The main concern is the final canvas;
the snippet weights affect it.

What makes a snippet's weight change? Perhaps "repainting" occurs in the form
of occasional repeated spreading activation, where high-clarity snippets and
cells (like the given letters) cause activation to flow to painters that
read from them as arguments, or, better yet, paint them correctly.

   In cp1, a painter that reads from a high-clarity cell and writes to a
   low-clarity cell has high probability of running.


coherence => stability

stability is the sine qua non of analogy



clarity <=> stability ?


Hyp.: People dislike instability as such. So, the mere recognition that an
idea is unstable is enough to make people flee it.


CYCLE DEFINITION

'image of' makes an edge, but only between repeaters.

'paints' makes an edge.

Edges are bidirectional even though 'image of' and 'paints' have direction.

A cycle that goes through a repeater and another repeater in the "old world"
is best. That shows that the analogy preserves a relationship between
repeaters in the "old world".

Also: If a cycle doesn't fill all the blanks, that's a point against it.


AGENDA 10-Feb-2023

? List model elements
? abcd -> abcde; pqr -> ?
? abc -> abd; iijjkk -> ?  <--TODAY


MAJOR BREAKTHROUGHS

   PHYSICS

      Galilean relativity
      Newton's laws of motion
      Newton's law of gravity
      Newton's law of cooling
      Hamiltonian reformulation
      Carnot cycle
      Boltzmann's theory of heat
      Relativity
      Quantum mechanics

   CHEMISTRY

      Periodic table / valence
      Dalton's law (small-integer ratios in reactions)
      The atom
      Polymers

   NEUROSCIENCE

      Hodgkin-Huxley model



RvB = all the nodes that can reach a node in B

All birds   includes   all penguins, all cardinals
All things that fly   includes   all cardinals, all airplanes

KA => KKA
