AGENDA

1. List the main analogies and features that we have so far.
2. Look at tags
2. Look at doug28


MAIN ANALOGIES AND FEATURES SO FAR

abc -> abd; ijk -> ?
   ijl-cluster
   Worked out.

ajaqb; m____ -> ?
   ajaqb-cluster
   Mostly worked out, except for prioritizing the best answer.

abc -> abd; wyz -> ?
   wyz-push
   Not worked out: we need to snag-tagging and building a consistent "mirror"
   cluster.
   Not attempted yet with painter-clusters.

abc -> abd; iijjkk -> ?
   iijjkk-cluster
   Mostly worked out.
   Missing: repetition detector recognizes CustomSucc as a repeatable
   operation; how to determine the length of the '?' snippet.

abcd -> abcde; pqr -> ?
   abcd-abcde
   Not fully worked out. Need to see how to make a painter that paints a
   snippet's length based on its relation to something else.


UNRESOLVED ISSUES

How to prioritize the best answer in 'ajaqb'.
   Need to:
      Determine which cycles are best. (Already done?)
      Try it on a couple more examples.

How to tag failure and have it lead to recovery.

How to tag "the salient thing" and have that work in different contexts (see
'abc-cba').

How to detect a "mirror" relationship (as in 'wyz' and 'abc-cba').

How to make a consistent "mirror" cluster (as in 'wyz').

How to represent 'aaabac' as a successor group.

How to make digraph painters, such as for 'aaa' and 'bac' in 'aaabac'.

How the repetition detector can detect that a painter-cluster can serve as a
repeated operation, especially when the painter-cluster painters a subsnippet.

How to set the length of a variable-length snippet, especially as a relation
to something else (as in 'abcd-abcde').

Can a painter specify some but not all the arguments of something that it
paints? (As in 'abcd-abcde', and setting all the snippet lengths to 2 in
'doug28'.)

How can we anchor an index to "the most salient thing here" without
predefining what the salience will be in a new context? E.g. Rightmost,
Leftmost, "the 'a'".


The model will be ready to implement when it's clear that upcoming changes are
small and/or additions rather than radical modifications.


(Not needed to get started coding.)
Are painter-clusters flexible enough?
   This should become clear after a few more examples.

(Not needed for coding. Needed only for dissertation.)
What makes cycles so good?
   Hypothetically, the attractors are at cycles.
   And cycles imply coherence.


